>> Speaker 1: And a question about the way
that you setup the redirect, initially.
And I guess my question is, I've seen
an example of client-only routes before.
Where someone used the router library
that's in, I think it's Reach Router.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Versus what you did
here where you set up a redirect
thoughts about one or the other.
>> Jason Lengstorf: It's kind
of a use case based thing so
if you use reach router,
what you're able to do is say,
based on the URL that I'm seeing,
show me a different component.
And it's a really nice API but
in this particular case,
what we were actually trying
to do wasn't quite the same.
So we were looking at like, we wanna
show the same component all the time,
we're just pulling
something out of the URL.
And if the URL is set, then we're
showing a different kind of output so
there's no really like a right or
wrong way, it's just a case by case basis.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, so now the
the FEM progress branch is pushed up to
GitHub, it's done,
everything that we've done today.
And you should be able to step through
the commits and see exactly what happened.
There's also a branch on
GitHub called Chichi that
has links to comparisons
between each step of the way so
you can see the code as it
evolved throughout the day.
Any other questions?
Anything coming from the chat?
>> Speaker 3: If the API that we
are consuming requires an EMVA variable,
are you going to specify
them in Gatsby config?
And if yes, it's not going to be
shipped to the end user browser?
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
if you want to use an API that needs
like a secret to make calls.
You would probably want to look
into something like serverless
functions to handle that.
Because the the catch with
client side request is that
if you have to send a token along
that token is gonna be visible.
You could be sniffed out of the request,
it could be snipped out
of the source code.
And so you probably don't want to do that,
but if you use a serverless function.
You are able to kind of abstract away
the the sensitive part of the call.
And instead you can say only this function
can only be called from my domain.
And so my website will make
a request to that domain,
which passes the call restrictions or
the cross site request issues.
And then it will make that authenticated
request on your behalf and
send back the results you need.
So that's a way to protect those
credentials, if you have unauthentic.
Or like unsecure,
like a public key that you need to pass,
then yes,
you would set that through Gatsby config.
>> Speaker 3: Will the same thing go for
like any type of authentication?
>> Jason Lengstorf: I mean, in general,
when you're looking at client side apps.
Anything that shouldn't be visible to
the client probably shouldn't end up in
client side code.
And as a general rule,
if you're working with it in Gatsby,
it's the build step, isn't public
that doesn't create artifacts.
But you wanna try to avoid
putting sensitive data
into any type of build artifact.
So if it gets to react, if it goes into
your metadata or anything like that,
you wanna be pretty careful about that.
It can be useful to
just not set like it so
as an example, we set the Cloudinary API
secret in Gatsby config.
Another way that you can approach
that with really sensitive stuff
is you can say it needs to be
available in the environment.
But it never actually gets set in
the config the code will just expect that,
that environment variable is set.
And that would avoid it getting
any potential for a leakage or
things like that so
if you want to be really sure.
You can just make sure that it doesn't
gets set in any of the configured or
use anywhere other than
exactly what's needed.
>> Speaker 3: So how about authenticated
templates versus unauthenticated?
>> Jason Lengstorf: So authenticated
templates, as a general rule,
my recommendation is don't pre-build any
data that shouldn't be publicly available.
So what that means is if
you have a user dashboard.
And that's got any kind
of sensitive data on it,
You don't wanna build that ahead of time.
You don't wanna put that into Gatsby's
pipeline at all because any kind of
static asset can be compromised.
And it's just easier to not
try to play that game so
what's easier to do is to have someone
login within an OAuth workflow.
And then only send back that data
if they have a valid token and
just do it all on the client
side asynchronously.
>> Speaker 4: Actually i have a question.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yeah, sure.
>> Speaker 4: Regarding
the server side redirecting.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: You had nullified here, but
what if you were using
something like AWSS3?
>> Jason Lengstorf: You can set it up,
I've done it and what did I use,
Route 53, I think, is that right?
There is a way to do it, I cannot remember
off the top of my head what it is but
you set up the same sort of redirect.
But I don't remember which part of the AWS
suite of services actually handled it.
But if you were using,
like if you're deploying to DigitalOcean.
Or another kind of container based
service, you would use Apache or
NGINX to set up these routes.
Managed services like Nullify tend to
have configuration based redirects.
So anywhere where you're gonna
deploy it most likely you'll
be able to make it happen.
It's just a matter of what your
particular flavor of deployment
requires for redirects.
>> Speaker 4: I guess my question,
thank you for
the answer, it's entirely obvious
to me now that you said it right,
you have to do the server
side configuration for that.
But a lot of servers will just like if
it doesn't recognize the path, right,
it returns index dot
whatever like that HTML.
>> Jason Lengstorf: All right.
>> Speaker 4: Is there a Gatsby config you
can use in that scenarios,
you know what, when?
>> Jason Lengstorf: Well, so
the thing is with routes like that,
you'll never get to Gatsby so if Gatsby
is only set up for like slash surge.
Then the only thing that exists in the
file system is a folder/search index.html.
So the server itself needs to handle
that redirect because otherwise,
like Gatsby, we would have to
declare every possible route.
And every possible combination
of characters to manage that.
And it's, I mean, that's obviously
gonna be very not feasible.
If you're using serverless,
you don't have to stand up
a Digital Ocean box with a NGINX proxy.
That wraps your node server
that serves your static assets,
those sorts of problems just
kind of disappear, right?
And that doesn't mean they go away,
they're now on somebody else's
computer and not yours.
But the services are becoming
very stable and reliable and
affordable which means that for
us as front end developers.
We just get to hand off a huge
number of our problems.
And trust that someone who is
probably better at back end than we
are is doing it in the best
way they know how.
So there are always
trade offs with this but
to me it's really exciting because again.
The same way that Gatsby takes all this
boiler plate out of the front end,
the jam stack, the serverless.
And the infrastructure as a service stuff
that's out there is removing the need for
a whole bunch of boiler plate
on the back end as well.
And that gives us just, I mean,
we can get complete parity with
what you used to have to build.
A full fledged server and
API 4 with a couple lines of JavaScript
and a serverless function now.
>> Speaker 4: TypeScript support,
just Gatsby'll do it out of the box.
Is there a configuration that-
>> Jason Lengstorf: There's a plugin and
it's called Gatsby plugin TypeScript.
That should add support,
like with one line of config.
I'm not a TypeScript developer, so
I'm not sure to be completely honest.